I'm David Berlin with tech web TV and
I'm coming to you from the consumer
electronics show in las vegas nevada and
when you think about alternative power
solutions one thing that i have a tough
time getting my mind around is how you
just get electricity from water but here
showing just that concept in action is
company called horizon fuel cell
technologies at terris pankovich you're
the co-founder of this company and
you're showing some incredibly
innovative solutions here that are just
powering up these devices that require a
normal electricity with water how do you
do it that's right this is a generator
that we've put together which is
basically using a cartridge and this
cartridge can be stored for quite a long
time it just uses water so the
electricity here's the cartridge in it
and there's a cap it almost looks like
you know the gas cap on your car yeah
you fill this up with water and then
what do you do just fill this up with
water and just slide it into to this
device and it takes any kind of water
tap water any water any water and it
doesn't need to be pure water okay and
then what happens next what there's an
outlet here like yep unplug this so you
have to you have different outlets you
have two USB outlets and one AC outlet
that you can charge your phones your
iPods with these kind of little devices
and this you can use to charge up even a
laptop what question a lot of people are
going to have is exactly how much power
can the sustain and over what period of
time yeah so what sort of devices can be
driven by this one cartridge like this
can congenita bout two hundred seventy
one hour of power
you can you can have maybe five of them
with you and I can give you a one
kilowatt hour power okay so in practical
terms yeah I have a laptop or I have a
cell phone how many watts is to deliver
and for how long you can actually charge
a laptop probably about eight ten times
with this device so in a blackout for
example you can you can charge your
phone you can charge your laptop send
emails things like this with this kind
of small device okay and looking at the
cartridge you don't need any power to
make this happen no other batteries or
anything like that the cartridge once
you fill it up with water and use it
what do you do with the cartridge next
basically once you activate the
cartridge you have about 30 days to use
it and after 30 days it becomes inactive
and you just just go back to the store
and the store you can get another
cartridge in exchange okay so it's sort
of like you you exchange these you not
you don't throw them away but you can
once you fill them up with water which
is assuming what you mean by activation
yep then at that point when they're done
you return it in return another one you
get another one or you so much will they
cost every time you get a new one twenty
dollars twenty dollars so you get twenty
four twenty dollars you get about how
much how many hours of power you get
about 10 to 14 hours of power or
depending you can even have 20 hours of
power depending what you're actually
charging okay you've got another smaller
one here what's this what we call this
device the hydro pack this is the hydro
pack mini so it's a smaller version of
this this is a sort of 271 hour this is
15 watt hour so here I get about five
hours of power in it to run small
devices so ipod or telephones and things
like this and you would use this may be
the charger cell phone is right this is
what's inside the hydro pack mini this
is actual cartridge and this is the fuel
cells that's the fuel cell the cartridge
both of them are kind of independent so
what the consumer would buy in retail is
just the cartridge so I'm just going to
demonstrate how that works here's the
USB plug
here's the phone agency is charging and
in this case you wouldn't fill it with
water you just buy the cartridge as it
is actually you do feel it what I do
yeah there is it there'll be a water cap
here just put the water in push to
capture a capsule down and we talked
about the fuel cell yeah is this a
bigger version of that is that this is a
larger unit here yeah that's the guts of
this one actually it's a smaller I it's
smaller inside because we use a 25 watt
this is actually a 100 watt fuel cell
okay for future some commercial
application your company might be coming
up with for larger power we would
increase the size of the future and how
much would the entry-level price for
getting into this I mean we know what
its twenty dollars for the rechargeable
marriage but what about for the device
itself well this is actually the first
affordable fuel cell product for the
consumer I mean we've developed other
products before which were educational
or toy like this is actually a first
portable power product using the
technology which enters kind of the
company of the the affordable price this
is about four hundred dollars for a one
for one generator and what about the
little one here this will call little
retail about twenty dollars okay well
Terrace pankovich thank you very much
thank you according to Vega vich the
products going to be available in about
October but what they're really looking
for is a distributor here in the US to
help bring these products to market so
maybe for watching this video and you're
somebody who's got that sort of
distribution you can help rising fuel
cells do that now if you end up being
that distributor one of the things you
might be able to look forward to is some
other innovative solution like this one
here this is a fan that's running on
nothing but vodka and water and
according to Van kovitch a much more
industrial sized version of this could
generate about 50 watts of power from
the consumer electronics show in las
vegas nevada for tech web TV i'm david
berlin